= Terminus

* http://github.com/jcoglan/terminus

Terminus is an experimental Capybara driver implemented in client-side
JavaScript. It lets you script your application in any browser on any
device, without needing browser plugins. This allows several types of
testing to be automated:

* Cross-browser testing
* Multi-browser interaction e.g. messaging apps
* Run tests on remote machines, phones, iPads etc.

It is also a remote scripting tool, giving you a REPL that lets you
run JavaScript in any number of browsers at once.


== Usage

Terminus is a Capybara driver. For the most part, you will not use
it directly: you will use the Capybara API and it will send instructions
to Terminus for execution. To set Terminus as your driver:

  require 'capybara'
  require 'terminus'
  
  Capybara.current_driver = :terminus

Terminus does require some extra setup before you can use it to control
your app. First up, you need to start the Terminus server on the machine
where your application will be running:

  $ terminus

This starts the server on port 7004. Now open a browser at
http://127.0.0.1:7004/. (I recommend using the IP address of the Terminus
host; Chrome has bugs that can stop WebSockets working if you use the
hostname.) This is the 'holding page'. A browser is said to be 'docked'
while it is visiting this page, meaning it is ready and waiting to run
some tests for you.

To let Terminus control your app's pages, you need to include this
just before the closing +body+ tag when in testing mode:

  <!-- For example if you're using Rails -->
  
  <% if Rails.env.test? %>
    <%= Terminus.driver_script '127.0.0.1' %>
  <% end %>

If the browser you're using is on a different machine to the Terminus
server, replace <tt>127.0.0.1</tt> with the Terminus machine's IP as
seen by the browser. For example if I'm running the browser in VirtualBox
and the Terminus server on the host OS, then I set the IP to <tt>10.0.2.2</tt>.
You could also use <tt>request.host</tt> to get the right IP automatically
if you're running your app and your Terminus server on the same machine.

Finally, in your tests you need to make sure there's a docked browser
and select it. In a 'before' block, run the following:

  Terminus.ensure_docked_browser
  Terminus.browser = :docked

After each test is finished, you need to return the browser to the
holding page to make it ready to accept new work. In an 'after' block:

  Terminus.return_to_dock

This returns all currently connected browsers to the holding page.


== Notes / to-do

* Support IE, which has no built-in XPath engine for querying the DOM.
  I'm working on Pathology (see http://github.com/jcoglan/pathology) to
  try and fix this but it's currently not fast enough.
  
* Allow <tt>Terminus.browser=</tt> to select browsers by name and
  version so we can control multiple browsers at once.
  
* It's slow, especially at filling out forms. Use it to sanity-check
  your cross-browser code and JavaScript, not to test your whole app.
  
* It can be a little brittle, and occasionally there seem to be race
  conditions when running the Capybara specs.


== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 James Coglan

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

